===============================================================================
pwrecta - open source password manager
===============================================================================

ABOUT

pwrecta is an open source password manager which stores passwords using a Tabula
Recta [1]. pwrecta builds on the idea of "writing down your passwords" [2,3] and
attempts to provide a simple interface for password management. 

One of the main features of pwrecta is the ability to generate a special Tabula
Recta[1] consisting of random characters (generated using a cryptographically
secure random number generator). One can then create passwords by selecting a
row and column from the Tabula Recta. Here's a simple example, suppose we have
the following Tabula Recta:

    | A B C D E F G H I J K L M N 
  --|----------------------------
  A | _ u } I ` } R ) a < L : a A 
  B | - o ( : p # O % . _ ; ' j L 
  C | w c ( c y 2 h y ~ N O * > w 
  D | o : R m L % V , d H r Y B j 
  E | 9 , < 0 J p a o ) O w 0 w # 
  F | C j i } i z 2 $ O R 5 @ T I 
  G | Q - E m 8 N c / + u W Y V > 
  H | , y } U Y i j i q w q c - 4 
  I | K j W H e ; I ? E 7 H v 2 + 
  J | g * 7 4 E } a h Y z < " : w 
  K | . _ } I / J k 1 a D ^ ; p K 
  L | ` < A L c z } } I P ? 4 y T 
  M | F D < 8 < 0 R B t 9 X o B 2 
  N | I r O E m o a + Y W w ; : 7

And suppose we want to get our password for logging into webmail at acme.com. We
decide to use the first and last letter of the domain name as the start
row/column of the password and we want a password 8 characters in length. So we
start at the intersection of 'A' and 'E' and read off 8 characters diagonally
resulting in the password: '#h,)RWc

Defining a scheme for selecting the starting row/column of a given password is
completely up to the user and can be as simple or complex as one desires. The
direction for reading the password is also up to the user to define (left,
right, diagonally, etc.). 

pwrecta provides the ability to generate these Tabula Recta's in PDF format for
printing (and storing in your wallet for example) along with other advanced
features for storing and retrieving passwords. 

EXAMPLE USAGE

- List all options:

    $ pwrecta --help

- Generate a Tabula Recta using the default header and alphabet

    $ pwrecta

- Generate a Tabula Recta in PDF format 

    $ pwrecta -f pdf -o password-recta.pdf

- Generate a Password Recta using a custom header and default alphabet

    $ pwrecta -b A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J,K,L,M,

- Generate a Password Recta using the custom header and alphabet

    $ pwrecta -b A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J,K,L,M, -a 'a,b,c,d,e,f,g,1,2,3,4,5,!,@,#,$'

PASSWORD MANAGEMENT

pwrecta can optionally store the Tabula Recta in addition to generating the PDF
file. This allows one to have both a hard copy and electronic version of the
Tabula Recta. pwrecta stores the resulting Tabula Recta in JSON format. Here's
some example uses for working with the stored Tabula Recta:

- Generate a Tabula Recta in PDF and JSON

    $ pwrecta --dbsave

    this generates 2 files: pwrecta.pdf and ~/.pwrecta

- Fetch the password starting at row 'A' and column 'E'

    $ pwrecta -g A:E

    by default pwrecta creates passwords 14 characters in length
    moving diagonally (SE) from the start position

- Fetch the password 4 characters in length moving left (WEST) starting at A:E 

    $ pwrecta -g A:E -s 4:W

- Fetch the password 4 characters in length moving diagonally (SE) starting at A:E
  skipping every 3 character

    $ pwrecta -g A:E -s 4:SE -x 3

CONFIGURATION FILE

pwrecta will read ~/.pwrecta_rc

Here's an example:

#==============================================================================
# pwrecta_rc 
#==============================================================================
sequence=12:SE
pwrecta.path=/home/.passwd.json

#==============================================================================
# My WebMail
#==============================================================================
tag.webmail.coords=A:E
tag.webmail.login=username
tag.webmail.website=https://www.acme.com/

TAGS

You can define tags in pwrecta for quick access to passwords. Using the
pwrecta_rc file above we can now do:

- Fetch the password for the "webmail" tag defined in our pwrecta_rc

    $ pwrecta -t webmail

- Fetch the password for "webmail" and copy to clipboard

    $ pwrecta -t webmail --chomp | xclip

- Print all information for "webmail"

    $ pwrecta -t webmail -v

- Export all tags (passwords, usernames, and urls)

    $ pwrecta -e -v

AUTHOR

pwrecta was written by Andrew E. Bruno <aeb@qnot.org>


REFERENCES

[1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tabula_recta
[2] http://blog.jgc.org/2010/12/write-your-passwords-down.html
[3] http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/06/write_down_your.html
